# OpenJ2D (Formerly Minecraft2D)
OpenJ2D is an engine written in java with the main goal of giving devs a framework in where they can interact with all parts of the engine with a large amount of control. Another goal of OpenJ2D is to build an environment similar to Minetest, in which mods are the king and the experience is up to the user.


Due to the similarity between Minecraft and Minetest a goal of OpenJ2D is to provide compatability with regular Minecraft texture packs

## Important Note on Installation and Running
**NOTE: THIS IS CURRENTLY ONLY CONCEPTUAL, OJ2D AT THIS POINT IN TIME DOES NOT RUN**

### Installation and Running
1. Download OJ2D_launcher.jar
2. Put the launcher in a folder and run it
3. ???
4. (Optional) If you wish to play a Minecraft like experience then click the "Download demo game and library mods" button
5. ???
6. Select a resource pack that contains all files Minecraft uses by default, in other words, the default resource pack used by minecraft
7. Click "Generate Engine Resources"
8. Wait for it to finish
9. If everything goes alright then you are ready to click play!
10. Click "PLAY" and wait for the launcher to download the selected release from github

## Note:
In no way am I a good java programmer, this is a rewrite of the entire project. Almost all the code here is probably going to be completely different from any of the original code.
And finally, one of my major downfalls as a person. This project has a lifespan, I will work on it for a bit, however, I will eventually stop working on it. So if you are actually interested in seeing this project finish. Feel free to harass me to work on it.

## Goals
- (Major) Similarity to Minetest
- To in a way follow a proper structure based loosely on the way Fabric and Forge handle Minecraft mappings.
- Have an infinite map.
- Use regular minecraft resource packs for compatibility with already existing creations.
- To have a built-in mod loader. The idea is to have the game be constructed in way where mod support is kept in mind.
- Proper Javadoc documentation

## Info
The version that is provided in class files indicate the version of the game it was developed for


Minecraft2D has some of the following dependencies:
- Log4j2
- slf4j
- JsonJava (org.json)

The render engine used by MC2D is built on Swing and AWT. The engine attempts to solve speed issues caused by these libraries by running all rendering tasks in a separate thread. A major future goal is to switch to openGL based rendering for the speed and modability benefits.

## Mod Loader Information
The mod loader will have some limitations that may later get solved.

### Current ***Known*** mod support limitations
- Cannot make custom registry types without doing things like extending the registry class to add support

## File Structure
```
MC2D
├── atlas
│   ├── base.png (this atlas maps to textures the engine itself uses)
│   └── pack (everything in here is autogenerated by TextureMap.java, below is an example of what it could look like)
│       ├── blockAtlas1.png
│       ├── blockAtlas2.png
│       ├── itemAtlas1.png
│       ├── itemAtlas2.png
│       ├── uiAtlas1.png
│       ├── uiAtlas2.png
│       ├── etc
│       ├── etc
│       └── etc
├── mods (here the user can place any mods, below is an example)
│   ├── mineGame.jar
│   └── baseLib.jar
└── resources (here the user can place any resource packs they'd like to use)
    ├── base.zip (this resource packs contains resources for the engine itself)
    └── packs (this is for any packs the user would like to use, below are some examples of what could be in here)
        ├── VanillaTweaks.zip
        └── Faithful32x.zip
```
